[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, I used to
be in technology.
I started a software
company in the '90s,
which is still going today.
And by the time I
was 30 years old,
I was borderline
obese, diabetic,
suffering from chronic
pain and depression--
a lot of problems--
health problems.
And I decided that
that wasn't the way
I wanted to live my life,
that I wanted to be healthy.
And I didn't find
any answers, really,
from my conventional doctors.
They even questioned the
existence of hypoglycemia,
which I was suffering from
at the time, where you eat
breakfast, and then a
few hours later, you
feel like you're
going to pass out.
And I almost did pass out
one time because of low blood
sugar, so I began reading books.
And as I read books,
I learned more,
and I began to use
that information.
Changed my diet.
Changed my lifestyle.
Lost 50 pounds of body
fat in six months.
Got rid of the sugar.
Got rid of the cheese
and dairy and--
all meats at that time,
although now I eat some fish.
But I just cleaned up
my diet, and the changes
happened automatically.
That's the beautiful
thing about the human body
and its ability to heal itself--
is if you do the
right things, the body
will heal itself
automatically, while you sleep,
and you can't even
help but heal yourself
if you follow the right steps
and get in tune with nature.
That's what I did, and
that's what I now hope
to keep teaching others to do.
I think there are
two main reasons why
we're seeing such high levels
of obesity in the West.
We've got this processed junk
food diet that people are on,
but it's also combined
with this new--
relatively new--
indoor lifestyle.
Our bodies were not
designed to sit at desks
under fluorescent lights
in an office cubicle
and chow down processed
junk food all day
long without getting exercise.
And if you do just
one of these things,
it may not be so bad, but
by combining them both,
then you end up
with a disaster when
you've got way too many
calories, not enough
nutrients, and not enough
use of those calories.
I don't mean to simplify
where it's just calories in,
calories out.
It's actually, as you
know, a lot more than that.
But those are the
two main reasons
why we have such a big
problem with obesity today.
The marketing that
people are subjected
to today in the food
industry is extremely
manipulative and destructive.
I mean, the marketing
essentially lies to you,
because it presents you with
this image of a can of soda,
let's say, and it doesn't
tell you what's in the can.
What it says is that this can--
if you drink it, it's
going to bring you
these benefits by association.
You're going to be cool.
You're going to be sexy.
You're going to be happy.
You're going to be
surrounded by friends,
wearing skimpy bikinis--
or whatever their
message happens to be.
But this is a lie.
The truth is if you
drink that soda,
you're going to lose bone
mineral density because
of the fast phosphoric
acid it contains.
If it's a diet soda, you may
suffer neurological problems
due to the chemical sweeteners.
And if it's not a
diet soda, it probably
is made with high
fructose corn syrup
in North America and
elsewhere around the world,
and that's going to
promote diabetes--
type II-- and obesity.
So on one hand,
here's the promise--
you're going to be sexy
and popular and cool.
But in reality,
you're going to be
obese and miserable
and unhealthy and sick.
The marketers are telling you
this, but what they deliver
is this.
And in between that, that's the
dishonesty gap, right there.
And that's what we have to
watch out for today when
we look at the way food and
beverages are marketed to us.
We have to watch out for all
of these distortions that
are very carefully
planned and engineered
to make us want something
that will actually harm us.
So what they're really
delivering to you
is chronic disease and sickness
and suffering and pain,
and even an early death.
Many of these foods
promote heart disease
and promote diabetes
and promote cancer.
But they want you to think
that it's in your interest,
somehow, to keep
buying that product--
and usually at a
very high price.
I mean, 500%, 1,000% higher than
the cost of the ingredients.
So the business of marketing
is the business of convincing
people to take actions that
are betraying themselves,
if you think about it-- in
the food industry especially--
because to act with
congruence, to love yourself,
and to consume food
and beverages that
are good for you means you
have to turn off the marketing
messages completely,
and you have
to go to the things
that are never marketed.
A head of cabbage--
who's advertising cabbage?
Nobody.
But it's one of the best
things you can possibly eat.
And if you really are in tune
with what your body needs,
you're going to go for the
fresh produce, the fresh fruits,
the roots, the nuts, the seeds.
Those are the things that are
going to make you healthy,
and those are the things that
are rarely, if ever, promoted.
The food companies engineer
addictions, I believe,
into many of the
foods so that a food--
let's say a
process-refined sugar food,
or a soda made with high
fructose corn syrup--
it will deliver something--
a biochemical change
in your brain.
It will make you momentarily
uplifted, or momentarily happy.
And people-- they get
used to that feeling,
and they want to slam
cookies or cake or soda
to get that momentary
feeling of feeling elated.
But then that feeling soon--
very quickly-- drops off,
and you're left empty.
Where's the food?
Where's the nutrients?
Where are the things that the
body and the mind really crave?
And the answer, from the food
companies' point of view,
is to go back and
buy another can.
Buy another bag of chips.
And MSG, I believe, is
one of the ingredients
that is very, very addictive.
And once people are used to
MSG, they tend to crave it.
And you find it in a
lot of snack chips.
Caffeine, obviously,
is highly addictive.
And I've worked with people
to get off of addictive sodas.
Just to go to clear soda
from a caffeine soda--
that almost takes a
miracle, sometimes,
for people, because it's
so incredibly addictive.
So we know that
the food companies
realize that many of their
ingredients are very addictive.
And the tobacco companies
did it for decades.
They're still doing it.
If you addict a customer,
you have a customer for life.
Food companies do much the same
thing with different chemicals.
It's not nicotine.
It's the MSG.
It's the processed sugars.
It's the aspartames.
It's these other chemicals.
But it's the same idea.
It's just like
selling cigarettes.
You're selling food
that's harmful,
and you want people
to keep coming back,
so you put in those
chemicals that make
them want it again and again.
It's like turning human
beings into a little lab
rats, which is very
condescending and very--
it's a great disservice
to humankind.
When it comes to high fructose
corn syrup, a lot of people
don't realize the dangers of
refining and concentrating
ingredients from a product.
So high fructose corn
syrup comes from corn--
obviously-- but
it's not natural,
because it's so
concentrated and so refined.
It's an isolated nutrient.
For example, cocaine is probably
not good for your health,
but it comes from the Coca leaf.
And Coca leaf tea is perfectly
safe for your health.
I drank it when I was hiking
in the Andes Mountains,
and it's used throughout
the culture there.
It's a very important
nutraceutical medicinal plant
that's used throughout
South America.
And there's no harm
in drinking Coca tea,
and it's not addictive,
nothing like that.
But you wouldn't want to
snort cocaine from the highly
refined coca tea.
Well, eating high fructose
corn syrup, in my view,
is a lot like snorting cocaine.
It is the highly refined,
isolated, concentrated,
chemically manipulated
version of something
that's found in corn
and grown in corn.
But if you eat corn, it's fine.
You're not going to get that
much high fructose corn syrup.
But if you take it all
out and concentrate it,
then it becomes a
danger to your body.
Well, why?
Why is it dangerous?
Because then your body doesn't
recognize it as a natural food.
And in terms of just
the glycemic index,
high fructose corn syrup is
like jet fuel for your body.
If you pour jet
fuel into your car,
into your car's
gasoline tank, you're
going to ruin your engine.
You'll burn it out.
Much the same thing
happens in the human body.
You overuse the carbohydrate
conversion biology in your body
to the point where your
pancreatic cells, for example,
can't generate insulin
the way they used to,
or the insulin isn't working
the way it's supposed to.
You have reduced
insulin sensitivity.
So these isolated ingredients
from all over the plant world--
when they're in nature and
full spectrum, they're safe.
But when you isolate them,
they become very dangerous.
And there are many
other examples
of that throughout
the food supply--
MSG, for example.
You can concentrate yeast
extract out of yeast,
and that becomes another
dangerous food ingredient.
Stay away from the isolates.
Stay away from high
fructose corn syrup.
Stay away from anything that
is an unnatural and highly
concentrated chemical
from a plant that
should be consumed in its
full spectrum, bioavailable,
nutrient complexity.
That's the way nature delivers
food-- as a nutrient complex,
not as one, isolated nutrient.
You can find high fructose
corn syrup in so many products
in the stores.
It would amaze you.
If you turned them around and
looked at the ingredients,
no way.
I can't believe it's in here.
Salad dressings will have it.
You'll have high
fructose fructose corn
syrup in pasta sauces.
And pizza sauce, especially,
is loaded with it.
You really have to watch out
for everything in the grocery
store.
Read it, make sure it doesn't
contain this high fructose corn
syrup and other ingredients
that are dangerous--
such as, for example,
yeast extract.
They're putting yeast
extract in fresh meat.
Now, it's incredible--
fresh meat.
You used to think that
the processed meat was
the dangerous stuff,
and the fresh meat
didn't have any chemical
additives in it at all.
Well, I was at a grocery
store in the United States
recently looking at
the meat, because I
had to buy some from my dog--
because I feed my dog
really healthy, fresh meats.
And I was looking at
the meat products,
and I turned one over,
and in the ingredients
it says yeast extract.
I couldn't believe it.
So now even the
fresh meats, you have
to be careful about what's
in them, because they're
putting additives in that
to make it taste better.
It's crazy.
When you're reading
food labels, make sure
that you actually read the
Ingredients section that lists
the words of what goes into it.
And there are some
things to watch out
for that you don't
want to purchase
if you want to be
healthy, especially
for your family
and your children.
You want to watch out for
artificial food colors.
FD&C red number 40, blue
number 2-- anything like that.
If it's an artificial
color, it'll
have a number and a color name,
like red, blue, whatever--
yellow.
You don't want
those for your kids.
You also don't want yeast
extract or torula yeast.
That's another form of MSG.
They contain free
glutamic acid, which is--
it's called an excitotoxin.
Some doctors say
it's a neurotoxin.
And it's highly
addictive, and makes you
want to eat more of that food.
It's an artificial
chemical taste enhancer.
And watch out for foods that
contain high fructose corn
syrup-- of course--
but also artificial
chemical sweeteners--
such as acesulfame
potassium, sometimes
called acesulfame
K. Also, there's
saccharin that's still
used not just in foods,
but in your children's
cough medicines.
In all the children's
medicines, a lot of them
contain saccharin still.
And of course, aspartame--
that's a big one
to avoid, both in the foods
and in the medicines as well.
I mean, we could talk for
hours about the stuff that's
in the over-the-counter
medicine.
And a lot of it's for kids.
I can't believe it.
You'd be amazed at
what they put in this
with the artificial colors
and the artificial sweeteners.
When you're shopping for
sugar-free foods, watch out,
because most sugar-free
foods have replaced it--
replaced the sugar--
with other artificial
chemical sweeteners,
such as sucralose or aspartame
or acesulfame K. Usually when
you give up the sugar, you're
getting a chemical instead,
and that chemical--
that could be worse for
you than natural sugar.
I don't mind eating natural
sugar if it's from sugar cane
and it's not highly refined
and it's not bleached.
So a genuine, real brown sugar--
like evaporated cane juice
crystals-- fine for you, as
long as the rest of your diet
is healthy too.
But I don't want to be eating
or drinking chemical sweeteners.
And when you look
at sugar-free foods,
they'll either use those,
or they'll use fructose--
an isolated, extracted,
powdered fructose--
which they say is lower
on the glycemic index,
and that's true.
But it still can
promote diabetes
and metabolic disorders,
because it's highly refined,
highly concentrated, and it
still has a high glycemic load.
So just because it says
sugar-free doesn't mean
it's healthy.
In fact, I could go into
a grocery store right now,
and we could go to the
sugar-free section,
and we could find some
very unhealthy foods there
that most people don't realize
are really bad for them.
They think they're
shopping for healthy foods.
This is the other thing--
a lot of consumers,
when they buy sugar-free--
when consumers are
buying sugar-free foods
or fat-free foods, they don't
realize that a lot of those
are very unhealthy.
They're fooled.
It's not due to any
fault of their own.
They've been tricked
by the food companies
into thinking that
because of the labels--
sugar-free, fat-free,
all natural--
that it must be good for them.
And the truth is a
lot of these products
contain very questionable,
and maybe even
toxic ingredients
that I wouldn't
want to feed to any human being,
or even an animal, frankly.
They're that bad for you.
If you're still looking
for fat-free products,
then I think you've
been misinformed--
perhaps by a physician who
isn't up to speed on the latest
research, which shows that
fat is really good for you
if it's the right kind of fat.
And that's the key-- it's
getting the right kind of fat
in your body.
We know that the
cheap, low-grade fats,
such as soybean oil and even
canola oil and the corn oils--
these are not healthy for you
to consume in large quantities
over the long term.
The worst kinds of fats are the
partially hydrogenated fats.
These are the
hydrogenated oils that
are used in many baked items
and crackers and cookies,
and margarine spreads--
the butter spreads.
Oh, those are some of the worst
foods you could possibly eat.
If you want healthy
fats, then you
got to get into the natural,
plant-based fats from avocados,
and chia seeds, and flax
seeds, and even the healthy fat
from salmon--
wild-caught salmon.
That's a healthy fat for you.
There are healthy fats in fish--
if you can avoid the
mercury content which
is in a lot of fish
from the oceans today.
But if you're
looking for fat-free,
most people who
are doing that are
doing that on the advice
of their physician.
Maybe they had a heart
attack, and a physician
said you need to eat
fewer than, let's say,
10 grams of fat a day.
Well, I've known people
who were on those diets
after a heart attack, and
they passed away very quickly.
They did not live very long,
because their body wasn't
getting the fat
that they needed.
I eat a lot of fat, every day.
I don't know what percentage
of my diet is fat,
but I eat a lot of fat.
And I'm not a fat person--
to use that crude phrase.
And most of the
people I know who
are fit and thin and healthy--
they eat a lot of fats, but
they're the right kind of fat.
They're the plant-based
fats from avocados and chia
seeds and flax seeds.
They're not cheap corn
oil, soybean oil--
one of the worst--
or even canola oil.
Olive oil is one that's
sort of in the middle.
I know that it's a big part of
the Mediterranean diet, which
is very healthy.
So if you want to
cook with an oil,
choose olive oil-- or
better yet, coconut oil.
That's the best one
of all for cooking,
because it has a very high
temperature tolerance.
One of the most
important realizations
that people need
to get onto here--
when they're
shopping or eating--
is that the breads and
any of these fluffy
carbohydrates--
they're converted
into sugar right in your body.
So within minutes after you
eat them, they become sugar.
So a lot of people
say, well, I'm
avoiding sugar,
because they're not
eating crystallized
sugar in that form,
or drinking liquid sugar.
But they're eating
a bread, or they're
eating a pancake, or a
muffin, or a cornbread.
Cornbread used to be made
out of corn and not sugar.
Now it's like corn cake.
It's sugarized corn cake.
And when you eat that, that
becomes sugar internally.
It has a very high
glycemic index,
and a high glycemic load.
So when you're thinking
about what to eat,
if you're working to
reduce your sugars,
your definition of what is
sugar really needs to expand.
It's more than just
the white powder.
It's all of these things
in your possible diet
that get converted
into blood sugar
very quickly once you swallow
them and start to digest them.
And that is a much bigger
pool of possible foods
than what people are used to.
And a lot of people, again,
when it comes to things
like bagels--
they think bagels
are a healthy food.
Well, not really.
It's just a different-shaped
piece of bread--
usually with fake
blueberries in it, too.
I've seen people go to
these frozen yogurt stores,
and they think frozen
yogurt is healthy.
Well, it's really ice
cream with a little bit
of probiotic powder on it.
That's milk sugar
that's called yogurt.
It's not any better for
you than ice cream, really.
Maybe a little bit
of probiotics in it,
but that's not a healthy food.
People's idea of what's
healthy and what's not healthy
is really at odds with
biological reality.
And so things that are
not sugar are the celery.
Celery is not sugar.
The fresh produce is not sugar.
And even if you get sugar
in the form of an apple,
that is a slow sugar,
a lower glycemic sugar
that's locked into the
natural fibers of the apple.
So it will take your body time
to digest them and break them
down and release the
sugar, and that's
what you want-- is a
slow, steady energy that's
delivered by fruits and
nuts and vegetables,
not the high-octane,
burn-you-out type of sugar
that you get from
breads and pretzels
and carbonated soft drinks
and things like that.
So watch out for
all those things.
Many of the food labels
at the grocery store
are very deceptive.
For example, there's
a cereal made
by General Mills called Total
Blueberry Pomegranate Cereal.
It contains no blueberries
and no pomegranates.
So a lot of food labels
will imply that they
contain certain ingredients.
They'll have pictures
of blueberries,
or pictures of
fruit, or they even
use names of
different ingredients
in the name of the product--
like pomegranate something,
or super berry something.
But when you look
on the ingredients,
those ingredients aren't there.
And the naming of food
products often is a little
too loose and creative.
It's almost as if they're
naming these products--
and this is from the
major food companies
whose products are in
every major grocery store
all around the world.
It's almost as if
they're naming them
based on what they hope you
might imagine you're eating,
rather than what's
really in the box,
because a lot of times
it's not in there.
And then there's stuff that is
in there that they don't want
you to see on the label,
so they don't put it
on the label, such
as propylene glycol.
This chemical is used in a
lot of blueberry muffins.
It's part of what makes
up the blueberry bits that
aren't blueberries.
They're made of propylene
glycol, partially hydrogenated
oils, liquid sugars,
and artificial colors.
You can also use propylene
glycol to winterize your RV.
It prevents the pipes from
freezing in the winter.
It's also use to clean out your
colon before a colonoscopy.
So multiple uses
for this ingredient
that you get in your
blueberry muffins.
Watch out for a lot of the
cereals sold in grocery stores.
There's a cereal by
General Mills called Total,
and this is Total Blueberry
Pomegranate Cereal.
That's the name right
on the front of the box.
Well, if you look
at the ingredients,
you find that this cereal
contains no blueberries
and no pomegranates.
So the label is misleading,
because it's not in the cereal.
Why would they name a
product blueberry pomegranate
if there are no blueberries
and pomegranates in it?
Well, one of the
answers might be
that people are learning that
blueberries are good for you,
and pomegranates
are good for you,
and consumers are going to pay
more and buy more products that
claim to have those
ingredients in them,
but most consumers won't
read the ingredients list.
So they're being hoodwinked.
They think they're
buying these fruits,
but they're not getting them
in the cereal, in this case.
And this is true across
many products, including
fruit juices and punches and
fake orange juice products
that you can buy in
the grocery store.
There are a lot of fake
products in the stores
that will use very
clever labeling
to imply that they're
real, or that they
contain real ingredients.
But if you really investigated
and just read the label,
you'll find that they're
exaggerating things,
or basically just
being deceptive.
It's very common throughout
the food industry.
There is suspicion that the
yellow artificial colors are
linked to a diagnosis of ADHD,
or Attention Deficit Disorders.
But as a general
rule, you should avoid
all of the artificial colors.
Some people say yellow's
more bad than red or blue,
or the blue's safe.
The truth is the FDA--
even in the United States--
has banned food colors
throughout the
history of the agency.
So some colors that were on
the market are now illegal.
And without question,
some colors that are legal
now are going to be
illegal in another decade.
So do you want to play Russian
roulette with your kid's life
and find out which color's going
to be legal 10 years from now?
No.
Take them all out of their diet.
Don't let them eat
petrochemical colors--
at all.
I don't recommend that people
use microwave to heat anything
that they're going to consume.
Microwaves alter--
they chemically alter--
the molecules of your food--
both the fat molecules
and the water molecules.
Now, how do they alter them?
Well, here's one example.
Scientific tests have shown that
broccoli, when it's microwaved,
will lose up to 98%
of its phytonutrients.
Those are its
plant-based nutrients.
That's the medicine.
That's why broccoli
is anti-cancer,
and that's why it's good to
eat broccoli and cauliflower
and cabbage, because it
has an anti-cancer effect.
It's very powerful at helping
prevent breast cancer.
But if you microwave
your broccoli,
you're eating dead,
inert broccoli.
You might as well be eating
broccoli-colored cardboard.
It's not the same anymore
after the microwave.
So if you go to the
trouble of buying your food
and preparing your food,
don't kill your food
in your microwave.
Eat it raw, or prepare
it in some other way that
doesn't destroy the
natural medicinal benefit,
and you will benefit from eating
it in its more natural state.
The promotion of
weight loss surgery
is very rampant
in America today,
and it's really a
reflection of the culture.
The American culture is give me
the results without the effort.
I'm sad to say, because
I'm an American,
and I'm a patriotic American.
I love many things
about American culture.
But this idea that
you can just somehow
lose weight without altering
your diet, that you can just
rip out part of your
digestive system
and keep eating ice cream,
just in smaller amounts,
doesn't make any sense to me.
In fact, I think
it's a medical fraud.
I know that's a
harsh word, but I
think people are dying
from these surgeries.
And the surgeries
don't work any better
than just limiting
your calories anyway.
You could limit your calories
and still keep your stomach.
It's workable.
In fact, I saw billboards that
said, tired of taking pills?
Weight loss surgery.
Well, what's it saying?
It's saying, tired
of taking pills?
Rip out half your stomach.
That doesn't make
any sense to me.
How about tired of
surgery and being cut open
and having your organs partially
removed or stapled shut?
I would be tired of that.
I would say, why
not do some juicing?
Why not eat some fresh produce?
Why not eat real food, or
even begin to walk around,
do a little exercise, and keep
your stomach, keep your organs?
They're there for a reason.
You weren't born with extra
stomach parts, extra digestive
parts, that should
just be removed.
That doesn't make any sense.
So this whole thing--
I mean, it's crazy, in
America, that people
think that this is going
to solve their problems.
It doesn't solve their problems.
First of all, if they keep
eating the way that they've
been eating, they're not
getting the nutrition,
so they're not they're not
going to be preventing cancer
or preventing diabetes or
preventing heart disease or any
of these other diseases.
The body weight-- and I've
been overweight before.
I was nearly obese,
so I've been there.
I know what I'm talking about.
The body weight is
not the disease.
It's a symptom of something much
deeper, and much more complex
that's going on.
It's a symptom that
the whole direction
of your diet and your exercise
and your mindset about honoring
your health is off
track and needs
to be realigned to
get back on track,
because if you do all
the other things right--
in choosing your foods,
in choosing your diet,
and choosing your exercise,
and treating your body
with a sense of sacredness--
then the body weight
problem will solve itself.
You don't even have
to think about it.
You're doing other things
right, your body will heal.
And at the same time, you
will heal chronic degenerative
disease.
You will prevent cancer.
You will prevent heart disease.
The body fat will just
fade away over time
as you're making the right
decisions about your foods
and your exercise.
You really can
eat yourself sexy.
You really can,
because nutrition
gives you vibrant skin.
It gives you healthy hair.
It gives you a healthy glow.
I mean, every
system in your body
is improved, both internally
and externally-- cosmetically--
through proper nutrition,
because when people
look at other potential mates
or partners-- girlfriends,
boyfriends, whatever-- there
are a lot of visual cues
to health that we pick
up on unconsciously.
People look for symmetry.
They look for skin tone--
steady skin tone and not
a lot of splotchy type
of colors on your skin.
Why?
Why is this built into
our definition of beauty?
Why does the beauty
industry spend
so much time trying
to create products
that they put on your
skin to make your skin
look artificially monotone?
Well, the answer's
because those are the cues
that we pick up on that makes
you look younger or sexier.
But those things
can be accomplished
through nutrition--
through juicing, especially,
and by avoiding fried foods
and avoiding the
highly oxidative foods
that destroy your skin and
destroy your internal organs.
Fried foods are the worst, in
my opinion, and barbecued foods.
I mean, they're
highly toxic, loaded
with carcinogenic chemicals.
If you can avoid those, or
at least greatly reduce those
and increase your
intake of superfoods--
chlorella and spirulina,
fresh juice from vegetables
and fruits that you make in your
own kitchen, then your skin,
within 30 days--
it will turn around completely.
Your friends will ask
you, what's your secret?
And when you tell them, I've
been juicing fresh produce,
they'll say, well, I'm just
going to buy a skin cream--
because they want
the easier way.
But if you have
good friends, they
might start juicing with
you, because your juice
beats their skin cream
in terms of the effects.
And also, remember this--
the skin creams that
you buy are almost all
loaded with toxic chemicals.
I mean, most of them
contain fragrance chemicals.
We did a lab analysis of a
popular perfume product--
haven't even
published this yet--
and it showed that it contains
21 different toxic, potentially
carcinogenic chemicals-- none of
which are listed on the label.
So if you think about it,
how do you want healthy skin?
Do you want healthy--
I mean, do you want your skin
to be treated with nutrition
from the inside-out, or
do you want to coat it
with petrochemicals
and toxic chemicals
and artificial
fragrance products
from the outside, which
will be absorbed in,
and then they will get into
your liver and your heart
and your kidneys and your brain,
and they will cause disease
inside?
Which way would you rather
deal with your skin health?
Which way is going to make you
look better in the long run?
Which way are you
going to be sexier?
The answer's from
the inside-out.
And that comes through foods.
And that's why
people who are going
to a class reunion or a
family picnic or a wedding--
or whatever event
they're going to where
they want to look
good, they want
to look great and sexy
and young and vibrant--
they know the secret,
now, that people
are learning is they'll
start juicing 30 or 60
days before your event.
And by the time your
event comes around,
you're going to look fantastic.
So stick with it.
There are so many great
products to choose from in terms
of superfoods that have a very
cleansing effect, and also
a disease-preventive effect.
Chlorella is one of my top ones.
Spirulina, astaxanthin-- I
know these are long names,
but they're actually-- once
you get familiar with them,
they're easy to remember.
But the blue-green algaes,
other microalgae products,
are very healthy.
But if that's too
complicated, don't worry.
You can just go down
to your grocery store,
and you can juice up celery,
cucumbers, apples, pears,
and even some citrus
fruits with, maybe,
some beets that some
greens or some lettuce.
You could just take salad
lettuce, like Romaine lettuce,
and put it in the
juicer, juice it all up.
If it's not sweet enough,
throw another apple in there.
You don't need sugar
or anything like that.
That is hugely
helpful for detoxing.
Now, I want to mention two other
ingredients that are especially
useful for detox.
That is parsley and cilantro.
Now, parsley cleanses
your entire blood supply,
and it also gives
you fresh breath.
Parsley has so much
chlorophyll that it just
cleanses your old system.
And cilantro binds
with heavy metals.
And a lot of people are
getting mercury, especially,
through the fish
that they're eating,
or through their
dental fillings.
And if you eat cilantro,
it can bind with that
and remove it from your system
so that the mercury doesn't get
lodged in your body's cells.
And mercury, as you
know, is very toxic.
It's a neurotoxin.
You don't want that anywhere
in your brain cells, right?
So parsley, cilantro,
and just juice
it in together with all
the fruits and vegetables
that you love and enjoy,
and it's a delicious
drink, something that--
I recommend juicing
that way every day.
When it comes to
the food pyramid,
I think what people
really need to know
is that the old food pyramid
was really a pyramid scheme.
It was making the food
companies rich at the very top,
and the consumers getting harmed
and ripped off at the bottom.
They tried to say,
well, you should
eat more grains and more
meats and more milk and more
everything.
It was about just
eat yourselves silly.
That was really the official
position of the USDA--
which was fine, maybe, in
the 1940s and the '50s when
they first thought
about this pyramid,
because people were starving.
In many cases, they
suffered from malnutrition.
So the idea was
everybody eat more.
Well, that was a great
message for the industry.
The pig industry wanted
to sell more ham.
The milk industry wanted to sell
more milk, and so on-- cheese
and meat and corn and wheat.
And it was everybody just
eat more of everything.
Well, clearly that doesn't
work in the long-term,
because now we
have too much food,
and we still have a pyramid.
And the pyramid is still
the same structure.
Again, the food companies
on the top making the money,
and the consumers on
the bottom suffering
from chronic
degenerative disease.
So throw out the pyramid.
It's no longer a pyramid.
Today it's a food sphere.
Change the shape.
It's a food sphere.
It's your sphere
of food influence.
What food is influencing
your body and your mind,
and where's it coming from?
And if you start to look at
the nature of the foods--
where it comes from,
what kind of attitude
does the food have,
so to speak, if you
were to give it a personality?
Food that's from a local farmer,
an organic farm, is happy food,
and it's healthy food,
and it's not processed.
And that's good for
your food sphere.
Food that's trucked from
1,000 miles away, that's
been through a food factory,
that's been altered,
that's been hydrogenated,
pasteurized or homogenized--
any of these other alterations--
well, that's unhappy,
factory food.
It's not fun to go
through a factory.
So you don't want unhappy,
unhealthy processed food
in your sphere, because
that's going to alter you.
That's, like, your
internal environment.
You want the happy,
healthy, natural food
that's from local farms, and
that's grown in real soil--
real probiotic soil-- that's
got actual, living organisms
in the soil, and it hasn't been
just killed by all the chemical
pesticides-- which is what they
do in conventional agriculture
today.
So you can improve your life
and your mind and your mindset--
your outlook on life can improve
by altering your food sphere.
You've got to ask just basically
three simple questions.
Where does my food come from?
What went into the food in terms
of attitude or care or love
or compassion?
And then thirdly,
what is my intention
of doing with the food?
Is the food to support me,
you, for a good purpose,
to do something productive?
Or is it just entertainment?
You see, a lot of people look
at food as entertainment.
They think about food
as only occupying
this section of their body.
It's like their tongue
is an amusement park,
and they just want to have
a ride for 30 seconds--
get the taste sensations in
there, the chemical enhancers,
the MSG, the salt, the spices--
whatever.
And then they swallow
it and forget about it.
Well, that food is in
your body for the next,
I don't know, 24 hours--
or in some people's cases,
over 100 hours depending
on the situation.
It's only here for a short
time, and it's all the way
through for a long time.
So if you think about food as
short-term entertainment rather
than long-term
nourishment, you're
missing out on the
big picture here.
You should eat food for
what it does from here down,
all the way through
your system, not what
it's doing just in your mouth.
Don't treat your mouth
like an amusement park
if you want to be healthy.